Okay,
Mr. Peters, you were going to tell me something
about your great-grandparents or grandparents
or whatever you remembered about where they came
from and what brought them into this area. I can't,
like I say, my own grandparents, as far as I know,
were raised right here. But I've heard them
talking about grandparents
on one side where one of them was, Grandpa Peters
was a German fellow, and his wife was
Irish. And I heard my daddy say that, you know, they
couldn't talk plain English. But I guess that's
far back.
Like I said, my other grandparents, as far as I
know, they were raised right here around
Bradstown County, I guess. Did you go—you said you
went to school, some of the earlier grades in
school. Did you go here? Yeah. Tell me something
about where the schoolhouse was and who taught or
whatever you remember about that. Well, the first
school I ever went to was—my
only school I ever went to was right down here. What
community center? Oh, it's about two miles from
here, I reckon, two and a half, three miles. And
that's where I started and that's where I wound up,
right down there. 10, you tell me something about
school. What was it like then, as best you
remember? Well, them days, they had one teacher to
have several grades, you know. And this school
down here, we went through the ninth grade. And
they had three teachers. You remember who they
were? Yeah, I remember some of them. Mr. Rich
MacDonald, Mr. Barden,
and Mr. Barden's wife, and
they were devoused in Buckhannon.
I know when I was in, first year I was in school,
trying to learn my letters, they tell it on me and I
know it so, but they laugh at me yet about it. When I
got the S, that night before, Papa told me, he said,
you ought to remember that, it looked like a snake.
And the next day I called, They called it S. I told
them, no, that's a snake. My papa said, that's a
snake.
But they were strict teachers them days. I mean, a
student, you didn't talk back to your teacher.
What would happen? What would happen? Well, them
teachers'd tear you up them days. They sure would.
And then, another thing, if you... better keep it a
secret until your daddy get older when you got home
because when when you got out of line when you got to
look at the two lemon days why they figured you know
if you ever fought with a man it was always for a day
but i
just started saying that's about all i had to say
about it You know, my father can tell, has told me
before of getting up and going hunting or doing the
chores or whatever, and then going to school and
coming home and finishing up. Did you have to do the
same thing? Yeah. Yeah, my job was feeding the
horses. Mews back then, they, you know, farmed
with mews and had horses, took eggs and canned
them, plowed them too, worked them to the buggy. We
had a, my daddy had a carriage, you know what that
is? Mm-hmm. and two-seated buggy thing and
carried with his top on it and worked two horses to
it. And that's the way we went to church them days
and of course town too. We'd go to town about time.
But I've seen the day when a neighbor down below us
here would come by here with the roaches to bed in
the winter before Christmas. I've seen that
happen. Come out here with a four-mule wagon, you
know, four mules to one wagon, and my sister and my
mother would get in with them and they'd go on the
run and do the Christmas shopping. But that was a
pretty tough day so far as getting in and out is
concerned. I bet it was. That brings up another
point I'd be very interested in knowing. I have
heard my parents and my grandparents tell me for a
long time that Christmases today just aren't what
they used to be. Now, I'd be really interested in
knowing about what Christmas was to you in this
area when you were a kid. Well, we had a lot of fun.
Like I said a while ago, we had those parties, you
know, over during Christmas. Play parties. We had
a lot of fun in those days. Just lots of fun. Doing
the first one thing, playing pranks on people.
Well, I can't remember what the word was. You're
like me. You don't want to tell your pranks, do you?
No, I can't remember too much about it. I know we had
a big time.
You talked about farming and ranching earlier. uh
what did most people do which of those two in uh say
in 1910 or you mean when the ranchers are far right
more of the farm more of the farm
okay that brings up a very interesting point then
uh the invention of a lot of farm machinery Must
have changed the way people farm tremendously.
Oh, yeah. I'm sure you know something about that.
Can you remember when the first tractor came in or
when the first combine or whatever? I'm sure they
used to pick cotton here by hand, didn't they? Oh,
yeah. That's the only way you can plow it with
mules, too. When I was a kid, they plowed one mule.
And when they're breaking the land, they'd make
four furs. They'd plow right down the side of the
cotton stalk, you know, like here, and throw the
fur this way, and then they'd come back over here on
this side. And then they'd go back then and make two
furs to run that middle there. And everybody used
just one mule every day to break land. But then
later on, they got to breaking with two mules and
plow a little deeper, you know, and break the land a
little deeper. And then later on in that, well,
they got to using three mules to break land with a
middle buster and really put it down in the ground
to plow, you know, to make it deep. But I don't
remember what year the tractors come in there, but
we didn't own a tractor. We didn't own a tractor
till, well, when I worked for my brother over there
at some time between 33 and 43, that he bought a
tractor when I was working for him. I reckon we had
an old tractor around somewhere close to 1950. But
it used to be an old wagon, walking. Of course, I
plowed a steer once. That's the only time I ever
done that. How was that? Well, my granddaddy had a
family that got sick, the man did, you know, the
colored fellas on the working farm, and he's
plowing steers, and we put a collar upside down on
the steer, a horse collar, and was plowing cotton,
and you know, he'd plow dirt and cotton, we'd call
it, we'd have to plow up the next, this row, and this
way, and then have it come down that way, and I
plowed that old steer over there about, oh, about
two weeks, I reckon, But that's the only steer I
ever plowed in my life. I plowed mules and horses
and things like that. That's the only steer I ever
plowed. And then the tanks, everything we did, we
did with teams. And during that Depression, they,
we tell you about, they did some road work, the
county did. And I know there's several that did
teamwork on the county building that rolled up,
you know. Well, there's several of us around the
community here got a job there with scrapers, you
know, first team and driver's team. Wasn't
getting much, but they'd show a lot of money them
days. How much were you getting? I can't remember.
Seemed to me like about $3 a day. Seemed like. But
them days, just a little money could... Now, I
worked. for $50 a month, went to work for $50 a month
in 33.
And I had an old car, and I fed my family. I had three
children. Fed my family, and we had that old car to
come back and forth once in a while then. How much
was gasoline then? I can't remember. Not anything
like it is today? Oh, no, it is. I got to talk about
that now. It's been here. I don't know if it's been
here. or maybe 12 to 10, 12 years, but it's set when
it come here on 26th century gallon, you know, and
never had been changed. Can you remember the first
time you ever rode an automobile?
No, I don't think we can. When was the first time you
ever saw one? Well, I guess that and on that street
up there about the first night or so. Man, that is a
show back in them days when you could see a
automobile.
I went one time with my granddaddy and grandmother
out
towards Crystal City, out in that section of the
country. My granddaddy's second wife and his
first wife died. And she had a son that lived out
there, and we went with them out there, three or
four of us kids, to visit with them. And of course,
that was back when they were selling, you know,
land agents. They sold tons. The warrants had a lot
of land down in that country. But they carried my
granddaddy around. We was riding with him. And
this fellow smoking a cigar, I'll never forget
that. And it had tops them days, you know, it wasn't
like it is now. In the summertime, just push the top
back over it. This fella smoking a cigar and the
ashes blowed off in my eye. I'd like to kill me. I
sure have been watching anybody smoking when I was
riding behind them sentient.
You know this lady that works out at the entomology
building with me, this kitty used to be Rozier. You
remember thinking about her family in this area?
But no, they lived in the joining community. I know
Kitty all right, and I've been knowing her a long
time, but I didn't know her before she was married
or anything like that. Do you know anything about
why her folks came to this area? No, I sure don't.
No,
I don't. Well, is there any particular thing,
again, that really... impresses you, or has
impressed you, in the past about Bryan College
Station. For instance, when did you first become
acquainted with the university? And to know, see,
there's some people out there, or the
university's certainly not like it used to be. Can
you give me some changes you've noticed in it?
Well, I reckon I've been around college as little
as anybody has lived. Lived here as long as I ever,
maybe less than anybody. But... Brian, back
yonder, you know, we drove cattle everywhere. You
didn't haul cattle anywhere. You didn't have no
way to haul them. You didn't have a road to haul them
on. Chunks of nothing. But we'd drive cattle to
town, Brian, and out
there where the pasture land end was, it just, how
you just think it was going to be. Of course, there
wouldn't be no way you could drive cattle out there
now. But them ladies, them days, would get out on
the yard and have a broom. They didn't want to keep
cattle up on the lawn. But they drove everything
around.
You remember any big events that have occurred
around Texas A&M out here that you remember
reading about or hearing about in say in the 1900
and between 1900 and 1910? I can't remember. Do you
remember any about what the guys did out there
during the war? Well, no I don't remember much
about that.
The preceding has been a recorded interview with
Mr. D.L. Doug Peters, lifetime resident of the
Brazos Valley of College Station, rancher, 77
years of age. The interview was conducted on March
11, 1975, by Carl S. Barfield.